We Begin the day with Israel and the
United States on the same page perhaps
not reading the same lines today the
Biden White House confirmed that Israel
has agreed to stop the fighting in Gaza
4 hours every day well it's not a
ceasefire it is a daily window of safe
passage as The Exodus of Goins from the
north to the South continues today's
announcement did not come easily or
quickly US President Biden and US
Secretary of State blink have spent the
past week putting public pressure on
Israel to approve humanitarian pauses in
Gaza prime minister Netanyahu has tried
to downplay any differences with his
country's most important Ally keeping up
appearances it didn't seem to be on the
US president's mind today when he spoke
with
reporters asking for a Applause for a
lot more than three days um
yes did you ask him to pause for 3 Days
to get the hospit out for that time I
asked for even a longer pause for some
of them are you are you frustrated with
prime minister Netanyahu that he has not
listened more to some of the things you
have asked him to
do it's taking a little longer than I
hope well Biden's patience may be
somewhat thin but he and his
administration remain on message that
the US stands with Israel in its goal of
defeating the terror organization
responsible for the October 7th Massacre
of 1400 people Israeli forces are moving
ever deeper into Gaza City targeting
again and again what they say is the
heart of
Hamas fighting their way through the
Gaza Strip the Israeli Army released
these images showing its soldiers
operating inside the territory Israel
say its forces supported by air strikes
have been targeting kamasi anti-tank
positions
the advance Into the Heart of Gaza City
comes with a heavy price for Palestinian
civilians the flow of injury to the
alifa hospital gaza's largest
continues with some of the new arrivals
sharing what they went
through we were trying to flee to the
South as soon as we got to the street a
tank hit
us
more civilians have fled fighting in air
strikes in Northern Gaza the UN says the
bombardment has displaced about 2third
of gaza's nearly 2 and a half million
residents on Wednesday alone at least
50,000 are estimated to have walked
along an evacuation route to the already
overwhelmed southern part Israel claims
Hamas is trying to stop
[Applause]
them we saw Hamas putting Road Blocks we
saw Hamas lying
about Israel killing people when they
are on the way to the South we saw
Hamas does everything in our power that
the Civil population will stay in the
battlefield Israel says Hamas leaders
are hiding in gaza's underground tunnel
system at least some of the nearly 240
hostages taken by the group are also
believed to be the there Israeli leaders
say the ground offensive will continue
until they are released and the
terrorist group is
destroyed that means more gazin are
likely to be caught in the
crossfire all right for the latest now
let's go to journalist Sami soal he's in
Jerusalem for us Sami the White House
just hours ago announced that Israel has
agreed to these daily 4-Hour
humanitarian pauses in Gaza what are we
hearing from Israel about
this well I can tell you that in Israel
they're downplaying this the Israeli
military is saying that this is not new
that it occurred today but also
yesterday that they've been enabling
these kind of like tactical they call it
tactical paes in certain areas in
certain neighborhoods that means they're
not seizing the fire they're not
stopping the fighting in the Gaza Strip
but rather en in certain areas uh for
the people there to go south and the
report is that today another 50,000
gazans went South there's even a concern
among some of the Israeli military that
among those who are going south there
might be some Hamas Fighters that are
going south in any case they're
referring to this as as definitely not a
ceasefire definitely Israel is
continuing the fight but rather a kind
of a local a
breaks there were also reports today of
the director of the CIA the head of
Israeli intelligence and officials from
Qatar meeting to talk about a possible
deal to get more of the hostages
released what do we know about
that yeah so there was a meeting with
the participation of the uh the chief of
the CIA the the head of the mosad the
prime minister of Qatar in in which
these issues were
discussed um but on the other hand uh we
hear from Israeli officials even though
they talk about progress that was made
uh which is something that we haven't
heard in in in the last days but they
still say that maybe it could take up to
a week until such an agreement would be
made but there's still differences
between the parties Israel wants a
larger number of hostages released
they're saying that 15 would not be
sufficient they're talking about tens of
hostages released and at the same time
Hamas is demanding at least 72 hours
cease
fire also um we're hearing Islamic Jihad
which is another militant group in Gaza
they said that they're prepared to
release two Israeli hostages for
humanitarian and medical reasons is that
just a coincidence um taking place at
the same time as these talks in
Qatar well definitely there's a high
coordination between the different
organizations they they they launched
the attack together on the 7th of
October and and we can expect that
there'll be some kind of understanding
between these two
organizations uh what is uh also
interesting that they released a video
there was one child was uh 13 years old
who was speaking he was addressing nany
in this pre-recorded video that was
released by the Islamic Jihad he called
on Natan to stop the bombing he he said
that he's been protected by the Islamic
Jihad and that if he prevents medicine
and water from going into the Gaza Strip
it will also hurt the Israel who are
held inside the the Gaza Strip of course
Israel is rejecting this and saying that
this is a propaganda and so forth but it
just goes to show you uh that the issue
of Israelis held inside Gaza is storring
a lot of emotions here in the Israeli
public journalist Samy so with the
leadies tonight from Jerusalem Sammy
thank
you well I'm joined Now by yuel abof
he's an associate professor of political
science at Tel Aviv University he's also
the author of mortality and the morality
of Nations which looks at the nature of
social and political groupings that make
up Nations it's based on studies of
various groups including Israeli Jews
and he joins me tonight from Jerusalem
Mr abof it's good to have you with us
tonight in the last month many of our
here on DW have told us that the October
7th Hamas attacks fundamentally changed
Israel is that true or are we seeing the
result of trauma and shock experienced
on a national
level you do see that bear in mind what
you have just heard the report about the
13 year old boy and this is
heartbreaking and there are about
240 captives now uh what happened on
that Saturday October 7 was devastating
to the Israeli
psyche and the closest that it has come
is the memory of the
Holocaust it's also the day
that the greatest number of Jews died in
a single day since the Holocaust so
these are the sort of the collective
memory moments that October 7 summons
now of course we also have to bear in
mind that we humans are very adjustable
animals we adapt quite
quickly and this is to a certain extent
true in Israel too especially when you
look at Israeli civil society that has
responded remarkably well to the
challenge of October 7th unlike I should
add the state the state of Israel which
was virtually absent on October 7 if
there is one defining feature experience
of all Israelis on that Bak Saturday was
that on that day we all felt what it's
like to live in a failed
state but isra Civil Society R up to the
challenge and that was remoted I I want
to pick up on this notion of the the the
condition of society before October the
7th um it seemed that before the terror
attacks Israel seemed to be Riven by
Deep disagreements particularly on
judicial reform that was being pushed
through by the government under Benjamin
Netanyahu are those types of wedge
issues that were being pushed by the
government are they now gone I mean is
Israel United now in a way that it
wasn't before the
attacks no it's not it's United with a
certain very specific cause which is to
fight Kamas at least the overwhelming
majorities of Israelis are but Israeli
Society by no means is a United
society and look this is the result of a
30 year with Benjamin netan in many ways
by the way the massacre of October 7 is
the result of 30 year 30 year
of T Alliance I would say the T it
alliance between Netanyahu whom you now
see and and Kamas they have been helping
each other continuously throughout those
decades and this is partly due to nany's
ongoing policy of divide and Rule and
netan has been using this policy of
divide and Rule not only Vis the West
the US in particular and the Arabs in
general and the Palestinians between the
West Bank and the Gaza Street between
the P andas but also within Israel
itself nany has been ruling by dividing
people again and again and again and it
has reached a climax in
2023 for nine months Israeli Civil
Society has been struggling to keep
Israel a democracy against netanyahu's
government and his Cron's attempt to
turn it into a Theocratic dictatorship
and I don't think it's over his
ministers are still there they are
wrecking havoc in the West Bank they
Harbor certain Messianic ideas about
what's to come as a result of the war
and all of this is part of the struggle
of Israeli liberals and perhaps many
Israelis beyond the liberal C who
realize now the sort of tremendous
damage Netanyahu has read what you say
is is very powerful you're basically
saying that Benjamin Netanyahu as a
political leader is partly responsible
for the the the monster as as it's been
called that came across the border into
Israel on October 7th I know that the
polls show there is deep distrust in
Netanyahu at the moment um if his hold
on power does not survive this war what
happens then to Israeli Society in a
post Netanyahu
World there will have to be a lot of
healing a lot of healing and a lot of
Courage lot of courageous exploration of
the possibility to goes beyond beond
those strategies of dividing and ruling
the people and I think a lot depends on
our capacity the capacity of ordinary
citizens from all walks of life to come
together Jews and ARS religious and
secular asazi and M to those of you are
familiar with the Israeli
discourse all of those Rifts that netan
has been building his whole political
career around we will have to find a way
to build Bridges about it and it's going
to to be a tremendous task and I think
that we will need all the possible help
we can get yeah the possible help come
also from the out you know what you're
were saying there is that Israel is a PL
pluralistic society has lots of
different opinions will the country be
able to find it within itself to move to
a two-state solution even if that means
giving up settlements territory in the
West Bank with the risk that doing that
will be seen as a victory for
Hamas there is no question to my mind
about the capacity the question is that
of will look there's been a lot of talk
over the past months about the danger of
a second front and when people speak
about that they speak about obviously
the north the possibility thatal will
attack in fact I would argue we already
have second front this is already a war
in two front one front is militarily
against Hamas the other is politically
Vis Net's government M and I would go a
step further and say that in order to
win this double front War both Israelis
and Palestinians will have to come
together look the main thing that has
been haunting us and this is not just
under Nan it's been going on for 140
years what has been perpetuating this
conflict is that we keep on calling it
The Israeli Palestinian conflict as if
it is a conflict between all Israelis or
all Israeli Jews and all Palestinians or
all Arabs this is simply not true even
in the Gaza Street the majority of
Palestinians are against Hamas and as
public opinions have shown most Israelis
are against n both peoples have been
part of this cycle of being hijacked by
the
radicals and those radicals have helped
each other tremendously by the way not
just politically financially too yeah
the leaders of Hamas are millionaires
some of them are
billionaires too is a very rich
individual they've benefited each other
and now it is up to us the people and
alternative leaders to come together
two-state solution is possible there is
a way to further that cause with
courageous leaders and not just within
Israel and among the Palestinians but in
the region and worldwide we will need
every possible help we can have Mr
yuriel abof of Tel Aviv University you
have given us our viewers a lot to think
about tonight and we thank you thank
you thank you
goodby